#summary Development RoadMap

= ArbotiX Reloaded: 0.4.0 =
See [http://forums.trossenrobotics.com/showthread.php?t=4612 TRC forum] thread for details. ~~Crossed out~~ items are already done. 

 * *arbotix* Stack
   * *arbotix_python* - formerly _arbotix_
     * ~~move analog/digital to topic based. Add service to start new analog/digital topics. See [streams]. ~~ 
     * ~~joint_state publication includes velocity~~
     * ~~use sync_write to update servos~~
     * ~~each servo now has !JointTrajectoryPoint-based control topic and does local interpolation~~
     * ~~streamline to single, synchronous update~~
     * ~~add _throttle_ calculations to anything in the main loop~~
     * ~~default baud to 115200~~
     * ~~integrated into core: base and pml drivers~~
   * *arbotix_controllers* 
     * ~~joint_controller.py - classic joint_state style to maintain compatibility~~
     * linear_controller.py - overhauled torso_traj_controller.py
   * *arbotix_sensors*
     * ~~ir_ranger.py - subscribes to an analog channel, converts to a range~~ command. Works with most Sharp IR rangers.
   * *arbotix_firmware*
     * ~~support for sync_write.~~

= 0.4.5 =
 * *arbotix* Stack
   * *arbotix_python*
     * allow min/max angle to be extracted from URDF
   * *arbotix_controllers*
     * joint_traj_controller.py - converts a JointTrajectory command
     * tilting_stage.py - controls a tilting sensor stage (such as for a laser range finder). Offers settings for period and magnitude of tilt oscillation, emits trigger for laserscan_assembler. 
     * base_laser_from_tilt.py - extract a "base_scan" from a tilting laser.
   * *arbotix_sensors*
     * max_sonar.py - subscribes to an analog channel, converts to a range command. Works with maxbotix sonars.

= 0.5.0 and beyond =
 * Add spline parameter interpolation (in firmware + node).

==arbotix==
=== 0.3.2 - Early November ===
  * Stable Sensors: pml -- _in progress_

=== 0.3.1 - r130 - 10/20/10 ===
  * PML scanning and data storage code has been split off into an Arduino library. Library release with RoboControllerLib 0009
  * Major updates to firmware/pml driver to handle skew of sensor readings under motion.
  * Add ability to adjust the scanning range of the PML at startup.
  * Fixed bug where no dynamixels and sync_read leads to failed read. (Issue #1)

=== 0.3.0 - r106 - 10/16/10 ===
  * Stable Controllers:  base_controller (upload PID parameters, do ramping in driver, clear I/D accumulators on stop (issue 4)). 
  * Support for BigMotors library (robocontrollerlib 0008)
  * New Experimental Sensors: v_monitor.
  * Other changes: GUI now uses head_pan_joint, etc (more PR2-like).

=== 0.2.1 - r74 - 9/3/10 ===
  * Documentation Overhaul
  * Stable Tools: Controller GUI
  
=== 0.2.0 - r66 - 8/26/10 ===
  * Clean up and finalize Dynamixel/Hobby Servo classes.
  * Analog/Digital services stable. 
  * Move higher-level control into new controller architecture:
    * Stable Controllers: joint_controller, nuke_controller
    * Experimental Controllers: base_controller
    * Experimental Sensors: pml
  * Experimental Tools: Controller GUI

=== 0.1.0 - r9 - 7/30/10 ===
  * basic functionality, ROS API unstable

== stereo_usb_cam package ==
=== 0.4.0 - October ===
  * add camera calibration _set_ functions 

=== 0.3.0 - r106 - 10/16/10 ===
  * stereo capture, fake synchronization